README.md, before:

# VTOL - Vertical take-off and landing Flight Controller

This is an instance of the Beta 1.2 version of dRehmFlight FC available [here](https://github.com/nickrehm/dRehmFlight)

This is a work in progress and is not ready yet. The flight controller is being developed for an F-35 version of an r/c vertical take-off and landing model aircraft, as described by Nicholas Rehm, using a Teensy 4.1 and IMU 6050.

The following has been added to Nicholas Rehm code:

A C++ Config class (in folder `src/Config`) that supplies the following:

- USB port menus to allow for parameters modification at boot time
- EEPROM parameters save and retrieval

Some of the steps remaining to be done:

- [ ] Code adaptation for targeted model aircraft configuration
- [ ] Telemetry transfer through S-Port
- [ ] Add Angle/Angle2/Rate selection
- [ ] Add USB trace output control
- [ ] Overall verification with selected electronics and hardware
- [ ] Data Logging for post-flight analysis
- [ ] Tests in flight

Other potential changes:

- [ ] Config modification from control transmitter
- [ ] LCD for debugging support
- [ ] Port to a standard quad FC (if fast enough)
- [ ] Other devices integration

Licensing: GPL-3.0

## Config class usage at reset time

At boot time the setup() function of the main program is called to initialize the Teensy for preparation of the main loop function. After the Serial port is initialized, the `Config::setup()` method is called as the next step. This method retrieves the current configuration from the EEPROM and adjusts all parameters of the main application. If the EEPROM doesn't contain valid information (a crc32 checksum and a version number are used to ensure that), the parameters will be initialized with the default values as defined in the original main application content.

The Config::setup() method will then wait for 10 seconds for the user to send a carriage return character to the Teensy. If so, it will then show the main menu giving access to all configuration parameters of the main application and several other management functions through many entries and sub-menus. If nothing is received within 10 seconds, the Config::setup() function will exit and control will be return back to the main application setup function that will resume the preparation of the device.

The interaction with the menus is as follow:

- A menu is presented on the screen with a title and a list of numbered entries.
- A `> ` character is presented in the next line.
- The user enters a number corresponding to the menu entry for which he wants to interact with, followed by a carriage-return. If no number is entered or the escape character is sent, the preceding menu will be shown to the user.
- If the selected entry corresponds to another menu, it will then be presented to the user.
- If the selected entry corresponds to a modifiable parameter, the user will be requested to enter a new value for the parameter followed by a carriage-return. If no value is entered or the escape character is sent, the parameter will be left unchanged.
- If the selected entry corresponds to an action to be executed, it will be done and a message indicating the result of the action will be shown on screen.

To exit the main menu, it is required to explicitly enter the "Exit" menu entry number.

Commit message:

Refined the Config class. Added support for USB Output selection.

README.md, after:

# VTOL - Vertical take-off and landing Flight Controller

This is an instance of the Beta 1.2 version of dRehmFlight FC available [here](https://github.com/nickrehm/dRehmFlight)

This is a work in progress and is not ready yet. The flight controller is being developed for an F-35 version of an r/c vertical take-off and landing model aircraft, as described by Nicholas Rehm, using a Teensy 4.1 and IMU 6050.

The following has been added to Nicholas Rehm code:

A C++ Config class (in folder `src/Config`) that supplies the following:

- USB port menus to allow for parameters modification at boot time
- EEPROM parameters save and retrieval

Some of the steps remaining to be done:

- [ ] Code adaptation for targeted model aircraft configuration
- [ ] Telemetry transfer through S-Port
- [ ] Add Angle/Angle2/Rate selection
- [ ] Add USB trace output control
- [ ] Overall verification with selected electronics and hardware
- [ ] Data Logging for post-flight analysis
- [ ] Tests in flight

Other potential changes:

- [ ] Config modification from control transmitter
- [ ] LCD for debugging support
- [ ] Port to a standard quad FC (if fast enough)
- [ ] Other devices integration

Licensing: GPL-3.0

## Config class usage at reset time

At boot time the `setup()` function of the main program is called to initialize the Teensy for preparation of the main loop function. After the Serial port is initialized, the `config.setup()` method is called as the next step. This method retrieves the current configuration from the EEPROM and adjusts all parameters of the main application. If the EEPROM doesn't contain valid information (a crc32 checksum and a version number are used to ensure that), the parameters will be initialized with the default values as defined in the original main application content.

The `config.setup()` method will then wait for 10 seconds for the user to send a carriage return character to the Teensy. If so, it will then show the main menu giving access to all configuration parameters of the main application and several other management functions through many entries and sub-menus. If nothing is received within 10 seconds, the `config.setup()` function will exit and control will be return back to the main application setup function that will resume the preparation of the device.

## The menu system

As stated, the Config class supplies a facility to modify any parameters of the main application through a serie of menus. Menu entries are of the following kinds:

- Parameter: The current parameter name is shown in squared brackets, the value is in parentheses and can be modified if selected.
- Menu: If selected, the entry will show a sub-level menu.
- Task: A simple task will be launched if selected.
- Exit: Return to the main application.

The interaction with the menus is as follow:

- A menu is presented on the screen with a title and a list of numbered entries.
- A `> ` character is presented in the next line.
- The user enters a number corresponding to the menu entry for which he wants to interact with, followed by a carriage-return. If no number is entered or the escape character is sent, the preceding menu will be shown to the user. If the current menu is the Main Menu, it will be refreshed.
- If the selected entry corresponds to another menu, it will then be presented to the user.
- If the selected entry corresponds to a modifiable parameter, the user will be requested to enter a new value for the parameter followed by a carriage-return. If no value is entered or the escape character is sent, the parameter will be left unchanged. Modifiable parameters can be floating point or unsigned values. For choice selectable parameters, a list of choices is presented and the corresponding choice number must be entered.
- If the selected entry corresponds to an action to be executed, it will be done and a message indicating the result of the action will be shown on screen.

To exit the main menu, it is required to explicitly enter the **Exit** menu entry number. 

Any change made to a parameter is immediatly modified in the running application. It is NOT updated in the saved parameters in EEPROM, this to allow for testing when the end state may not be stable or when there is other parameters to update. The user must explicitly request the main menu entry **Save Params to EEPROM** to have all parameters be saved in EEPROM.

## Modifications done to the Main application

The following changes have been made so far. This will be updated as changes are being done.

- At the begining of source code, a new parameter: `USB_output` to identify what will be sent to the USB port for debugging purposes.
- In the `setup()` function, call to the `config.setup()` method. Before the `setup()` function, an `#include` statement to get the Config class available.
- in the `loop()` function, a *switch* statement to select which debugging output to send to the USB port.
